Save Story
Save this story for later.
Last Thursday morning, the Atlanta city councilmember Howard Shook
walked into his office and immediately began following the urgent
recommendation of his I.T. department: “Principally,” he recalled, “turn
off everything.” Shook, who represents District Seven, in Atlanta’s
northeastern metropolitan area, has three computers in his office, all
of which had been infected with ransomware. “Sixteen years’ worth of
information—gone,” he told me. “Every e-mail. All our contacts. All our
files: city policy, district-specific projects, activities. It’s
devastating.” A few days later, his office was given a clean, unused
laptop from the city-council inventory. The I.T. department has since
provided new passwords and strengthened the e-mail filters “to the point
where there’s a lot of stuff that’s probably not getting in that should
get in.”
Shook currently serves as chair of the city’s finance committee; in
years past he has been the city council’s president pro tempore and has
served on each of its seven committees. “There have been plenty of
internal debacles that I’ve had to deal with over the last two decades,”
he said. “But this is by far the biggest external debacle. We’ve been
assaulted by a cybercriminal on a massive scale.” The Times called
last week’s hack into the computer network of the largest city in the
southeastern United States, which is home to the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention and the Coca-Cola Company, “one of the most sustained and consequential cyberattacks ever mounted against a major American city.”
It wasn’t immediately obvious to Shook, who describes himself as “not a
tech person,” what exactly being hacked meant. SamSam, a “shadowy
hacking crew,” as the Times described it, had reportedly penetrated
the city’s computer network with ransomware —a
decade-old technology that infects a computer or a network and blocks
access to personal data through encryption—and was holding access to the
network for ransom: approximately fifty-one thousand dollars, to be paid
in bitcoin. Atlanta was the latest in a series of ransomware victims:
FedEx, Britain’s public-health system, Boeing ,
and many other public and private-sector entities have been targeted similarly in recent years . But Atlanta is the largest American city to have fallen victim to the
ploy. (Baltimore suffered a “limited” ransomware breach this past
weekend, according to city officials, that affected its 911-dispatch system for twenty-four hours. And five computers in Atlanta’s network were reportedly breached last year .)
The Atlanta hack has, among its many consequences, interrupted wireless
Internet at the busiest airport in the country; made courts unable to
validate warrants; created parking-system problems ; and, perhaps most consequentially, initiated the loss—maybe permanent—of
digital city files.
A week after the hack started, Atlanta’s recently elected mayor, Keisha
Lance Bottoms, still has not confirmed whether the ransom has been paid
in this “hostage situation,” as she has called it. “ Everything is up for discussion ,” she told reporters. (Bottoms has been busy with damage control, tweeting
to her constituents about the job-threatening inconvenience of not being able to pay their parking tickets online, and the security of their personal-financial information .
The city’s official F.A.Q. Web page about the hack went online this morning.) A few sources, who asked to remain anonymous,
have told me that the ransom, though a relatively—even strangely—modest
sum for a city with a budget in the billions, has likely not been
remitted. Shook said that “the city does not appear to have a policy
regarding the paying of ransoms.” One city official told me, “We’re so
fucked. We’re not paying the ransom. There’s no point. We’ll bite the
bullet and re-build our system in a stronger way.” Another frustrated
employee, who has worked for the city for more than a decade, said the
city never spends enough to sufficiently address these sorts of
problems. “They’re all about lowest bidder,” he said.
In the meantime, Shook and others are perplexed by the seemingly random
focus of the attack. The District Eight council office, next door to
Shook’s, also has three computers; two of them are still functional.
“It’s the same on down the hall,” he said. In any case, he doesn’t see
much good in paying a ransom. “The damage is done,” he said. “Stuff is
lost. I’m a tiny little example, but my computers—the contents have to
be euthanized.” He added, “We’ll rebuild the contacts, but, for me, the
lesson learned is: this longtime goal of moving to a paperless society
looks a lot less exalted now than it did a week ago. I’d give anything
for a hard copy of everything I lost.”
A federal criminal investigation is currently under way. So far, federal
officials have not revealed any details about how the attack occurred,
which individuals carried it out, or why. (The SamSam crew was
identified by researchers at an Atlanta-based security firm that is
assisting the city in its response.) Shook met with the federal
cybersecurity team—“Secret Service, Homeland, F.B.I., everyone but Jack
Bauer,” he said—and has busied himself learning about hacking crimes
generally. “This happens to individuals. This happens to private
companies. To public entities. Welcome to the evils of the twenty-first
century. I can’t wait to find out how this pathogen entered the city
system.” A former city employee, who left her job last year, told me,
“When I was there, I was appalled at how shaky the I.T. infrastructure
was. Every time there was a network outage the I.T. department sends a
notification. I got those notifications so frequently that I just
started deleting them.”
The city’s executive committee had a closed-door session yesterday to
discuss the attack. The city’s administration told them that, moving
forward, there would be more sophisticated strategies in place to thwart
hackers. Computers would be rebuilt and workers retrained with
anti-malware services. “What I don’t want to do is spend a whole bunch
of money and then have this happen again,” Shook said. “But I don’t know
what the model for a solution is, unless it’s military-grade,
nuclear-submarine-type stuff.” He went on, “There’s a lot of really
smart criminals out there. We have ninety-seven hundred city employees.
All it takes is for one of them to open an attachment they shouldn’t
open. Well, that’s hard to defend.”
Charles Bethea is a staff writer at The New Yorker.
More: Atlanta Cyberattacks Cybersecurity Hacking
The Daily
The best of The New Yorker, every day, in your in-box, plus occasional alerts when we publish major stories.
E-mail address
By signing up, you agree to our User Agreement and Privacy Policy & Cookie Statement .
Read More

