JPMorgan and other banks struck by cyberattack
Published Wed, Aug 27 20144:18 PM EDT
Updated Thu, Aug 28 201410:39 AM EDT
Nicole Perlroth
VIDEO2:1802:18
FBI probes big bank hack
A number of United States banks, including JPMorgan Chase and at least four others, were  struck by hackers in a series of coordinated attacks this month,  according to four people familiar with a continuing investigation  into the crimes.
The hackers infiltrated the networks of the banks, siphoning off  gigabytes of data,including checking and savings account  information, in what security experts described as a  sophisticated cyber attack.
The motivation and origin of the attacks are not yet clear,  according to investigators. The F.B.I. is involved in the  investigation, and in the past few weeks a number of security  firms have been brought in to conduct forensic studies of the  penetrated computer networks.
According to two other people briefed on the matter, hackers  infiltrated the computer networks of some banks and stole  checking and savings account information from clients. It was not  clear whether the attacks were financially motivated, or if they  were collecting intelligence as part of an espionage effort.
Read More Goldman, JPMorgan in Senate's crosshairs for commoditiesholdings
JPMorgan has not seen any increased fraud levels, one person  familiar with the situation said.
"Companies of our size unfortunately experience cyber  attacks nearly every day," said Patricia Wexler, a JPMorgan  spokeswoman. "We have multiple layers of defense to counteract  any threats and constantly monitor fraud levels."
J.Peter Donald, an F.B.I. spokesman in New York, declined to  comment, citing the current investigation.
The intrusions were first reported by Bloomberg , which indicated that they were  the work of Russian hackers. But security experts and government  officials said they had not yet made that conclusion.
Read More
Earlier this year, iSight Partners, a  security firm in Dallas that provides intelligence on online  threats, warned companies that they should be prepared  for cyber attacks from Russia in retaliation for  Western economic sanctions.
But Adam Meyers, the head of threat intelligence  at CrowdStrike, a security firm that works  with banks, said that it would be "premature" to suggest the  attacks were motivated by sanctions. Mr. Meyers said he could not  speak specifically about any of his company's clients.
Russian hackers began a month long online assault on  Estonia in 2007 that nearly crippled the Baltic nation, after  Estonian government workers moved a Soviet-era war memorial from  the Estonian capital.
Still, security experts say that the stealthy nature of the  recent attacks suggests that their motivation was not political.
A woman walks past JP Morgan Chase's corporate headquarters in New York.
Getty Images
Read More JPMorgan's long-term bet on a US  recovery
The American banking sector has been a frequent target for  hackers over the past few years, with the vast majority of  attacks motivated by financial theft.
But not all of them. Over the past two years, banks have been  targeted in a series of politically motivated attacks from Iran,  in which a group of Iranian hackers flooded United States banking  sites with so much online traffic — a method called a  distributed denial of service, or DDoS, attack — that the  websites slowed or intermittently collapsed under the load.
Hackers who took credit for those attacks said they went after  the banks in retaliation for an anti-Islam video that mocked the  Prophet Muhammad, and pledged to continue the attacks until the  video was removed from the Internet.
American intelligence officials said the group was actually a  cover for the Iranian government. Officials claimed Iran was  waging the attacks in retaliation for Western economic sanctions  and for a series of attacks on its own systems.
More from the New York Times:
Ukrainians Say Russia Opens 3rd Front With New  Offensive American Hostage's Mother Makes Plea to ISIS  Leader Uber's Secret Agents: When Poaching Crosses the  Line
Unlike like the attacks traced to Iran, the recent hacks against  the American banks were not intended to disrupt the bank's  services but appeared to be part of a financial or  intelligence-gathering effort, three people briefed on the  investigations said.
Mr. Meyers, of CrowdStrike, said hackers could have been after  account information,or even intelligence about a potential merger  or acquisition. Security experts said the hackers chose to pursue  account information, not disruption, which is the earmark of  state-sponsored attacks.
Because JPMorgan had not seen any unusual incidences of fraud,  however, it was too early to conclude that the attacks were  solely financially motivated.
So why were the banks targeted? Security experts said they could  not yet determine whether the attacks over the past few weeks  were the work of Russians, or whether they were politically  motivated. Indeed, Mr. Meyers said, any such conclusions at this  point would be the result of what he said was an effort by  security firms to be the first to present conclusive  evidence.
Read More
Banks are also frequent targets for intelligence agencies looking  to collect information about their targets. In 2012, Russian  security researchers uncovered a computer virus on 2,500  computers, many of them inside major Lebanese banks, including  the Bank of Beirut, Blom  Bank, Byblos  Bank and Credit  Libanais. The virus was specifically intended to  steal customers' login credentials to their bank accounts.
The researchers believed the computer virus was state-sponsored  and said they had found evidence it had been created by the same  programmers who created Flame and Stuxnet, two computer viruses  that officials have said were unleashed by the United States and  Israel to spy on computers inside Iran.

